Good afternoon, everyone,
and welcome to session 454
on Optimizing Websites.
We've been talking to
a lot of you this week,
and we've heard lots of
stories about websites not
loading as fast as you'd like,
using more bandwidth
than you probably want,
and also that you're feeling
a lot of pressure to add more
interactive features to your
websites and your web applications.
And you really want to know how
you can get the most performance
out of the Safari browser,
and coincidentally,
every other browser out there.
Well, my name is Jeff Watkins,
and I'm going to be talking to
you a little bit today about that.
And with luck,
maybe we'll answer all of your questions.
If not, maybe we'll give you
some food for thought.
Today we're going to cover in
depth the problems that are
facing all of our websites.
You know, we've talked to a lot of you,
and you're facing the
same problems that we are.
And
We're also going to give you some
really good strategies that you can use,
that you can take back to your
offices and use in optimizing
your websites as well.
And then we're going to run through
a case study of what we're doing
on the online store to put these
strategies in place to really
drive the performance of our site.
Lower our load times and decrease
our bandwidth utilization.
And then finally,
we're going to run through
some interactivity issues,
how you can improve the performance
of your JavaScript so that you can
add more and more rich interactive
features to your website.
So let's step into the Wayback
Machine and zoom all the way back to
1999 and take a look at a web page
that really would have required no
optimization if we were loading it today.
I'm speaking, of course,
of the home page of the online store,
circa 1999 or so,
judging by the clamshell iBook.
And it's no wonder this page would take
almost no time for a browser to load.
There's half-dozen to a dozen images.
There's no CSS.
There's no JavaScript.
It's really a pretty static, simple page.
Load this in Safari today,
and it loads in a heartbeat.
Now, if we fast-forward to today,
this is the online store
as of just prior to Monday,
and it's a lot richer.
We're taking advantage of the fact that
we're using the same old web page that
we used to use in the old web page.
We're taking advantage of the
separation of presentation and content
and a lot more interactive features,
some of which we'll actually see today.
And the problem is that
we have 13 CSS files.
24 JavaScript files and a
grand total of 80 images.
Now, that's a total asset of
117 assets on the page.
Now, you may be saying to yourself,
so what, who cares?
What really -- what penalty are we
paying for having 117 assets on the page?
And it turns out we're
paying a pretty high penalty.
If you were here yesterday and you got
to see the debugging session for Safari,
you're probably familiar
with this already.
This is the resource panel
in the new Web Inspector.
And what this is telling us,
when we load the home
page of the online store,
is that it takes 12 seconds and
841K just to get the home page.
I don't know about you,
but I consider that unacceptable.
So let's dive into this a little
bit and try to understand where
those numbers are coming from.
Why is it taking 12
seconds and good Lord,
where's the 841K come from?
So in order to do that,
I'm going to ask you to
bear with me a second,
and we're going to run through
the anatomy of browser request.
I know for a lot of you this
is the sort of stuff you're
already very familiar with,
but there are two really important
factors I want to talk about here.
The first thing that the
browser has to do is it has to
open the socket to the server,
obviously,
otherwise it's not going to be able
to get any data back and forth.
Then it sends its request over,
and ultimately it gets
some data from the server.
Really, like I said,
this is introductory stuff.
But there are two things that
often get overlooked here.
The first is latency,
and the second is overhead.
Now, latency is the time from when the
browser makes its request and until
it receives its first byte of data.
So the first thing that the browser
has to do is it has to be able to
get the data back to the server.
The second thing that the browser
has to do is it has to be able to
get the data back to the server.
So the first thing that the browser
has to do is it has to be able to
get the data back to the server.
That's really, really hard to reduce.
You know, if you've got a data center
here in Cupertino and your
visitors are over in Oslo,
the packet's got to get here somehow,
and that takes time.
So on the store, we use an edge caching
solution from Akamai,
and that means that the cache is as
close to you as we possibly can get it.
So we see average latency of
about 68 to 70 milliseconds.
That's really great,
but it's still 68 to 70 milliseconds.
And for the home page,
we see a total latency of
two and a half seconds.
Now, that's time that the browser,
great browser that it is,
is just sitting there idling.
It's not doing anything.
It's not loading fancy pings.
It's not caching its JavaScript.
It's doing nothing.
So we really want to drive
that down a little bit more.
And then the second
big issue is overhead.
And that's the number of bytes
that the browser sends to the
server and the server sends back
to the browser that's used simply
to negotiate the transmission,
saying, hey, give me this file.
Okay, here's your file.
Here's how big it is.
Here's when it was last modified,
so on and so forth.
Now, that varies by browser to
browser and server to server,
and we see that average somewhere
between 500 and 1,000 bytes.
Obviously,
if you have big cookies or other
attributes that they're sending along,
that could be even higher.
On the home page of the store,
we see a total of about 63K.
Now,
that doesn't improve our page at all.
It doesn't make for a better experience
for you when you come to the store,
and I'd get rid of it if I could.
So let's take a look at,
we're going to take a look
at ways that we can do that.
This is all good.
I mean, we've got 12 seconds.
Fortunately, the resource inspector
already includes latency,
but it has no real way of,
or it doesn't today, include overhead.
So that boosts our total
bandwidth usage up to 905K,
which is just way too much.
I mean,
we're pushing a full megabyte here.
But we've already seen that we're losing
two and a half seconds to latency.
And if you're on a residential cable
connection or T1 or anything like that,
you should be able to download a full
megabyte in four to five seconds or so.
So I'm kind of curious where the
other five seconds are going.
And it turns out there are a number
of roadblocks that stand between the
browser and actually rendering your page,
even if it's got all the data.
Now, the first roadblock is that the
browser won't render any elements
until... All the CSS is loaded.
Now, that means that if you told it
you need these CSS files to know
what color and what shape and what
background to use for the nodes,
obviously,
it wants to wait until that information
is available so that it can render
your page correctly the first time.
Secondly, elements may not render
until they're fully closed.
Now, depending on your browser,
this can be either good or bad.
And if you have like a highly
position-dependent layout,
so you've got floats with absolute
positioning and all sorts of fun stuff,
the browser may honestly not know
where to put the node until it's
all done laying out the node.
Now, as we'll see, this gets exacerbated
by the next problem,
which is that the browser stops rendering
while it's processing a script element.
And the reason for this is really simple.
And that's because in the old days,
and to some degree still today,
coders could call document.write and
modify the file as it's being parsed.
Now, naturally, if you're going to modify
the file as it's parsing,
the browser makes an optimization to say,
hey,
I'm not going to keep parsing because...
...if you change the document,
I'm going to have to rewind and reparse.
Safari 4 is doing a...actually,
it's in the...some of the recent web kits
are doing a great job of spinning off a
secondary parser to keep parsing and keep
loading your files as an optimization.
But we really can't count
on that from all browsers.
And then finally,
synchronous AJAX requests
stop everything.
I don't know if you've
noticed on the online store,
but as we're loading the page,
you can't swap all the files.
...and then you can't swap all the files.
So, we're going to have to switch
off to another tab because
we've brought your browser to a
standstill while we're making all
of our synchronous AJAX requests.
Now, from our perspective,
we could see that as an advantageous
thing because maybe you've got
Amazon open in your comparison shopping.
Well, you can't buy it from Amazon while
you're waiting for us to load.
...but similarly, you can't go to Gmail.
You can't do pretty much anything while
you're waiting for our page to load.
And ultimately,
we come to be seen as the culprit.
So, we don't want to be the culprit.
Right?
So, let's take a look at how these
things play on the store's homepage
because it turns out they're directly
responsible for our total load time.
We've got 13 CSS files, as I said.
Well, every single one of them has to be
fetched and parsed and the entire
CSS structure has to be rendered
or put into memory before a single
node in the body will be rendered.
That's 13 CSS files.
Next, we've got two script elements
with external sources.
So, we have to fetch those files,
wait for them to load, parse them,
execute them, and it turns out that those
two script files fire off 10
synchronous AJAX requests.
So, before we've even gotten to
the body of the document,
we've caused the browser to come to a
complete and screeching halt 12 times.
I don't know about you,
but I'm beginning to see where
this 12 seconds is coming from.
It doesn't get any better, sadly,
once we get into the body,
because we have an additional four
script elements with external sources.
Okay.
Again,
four more files that have to be loaded,
parsed, and executed.
Seven inline scripts.
So this is great.
We don't have to fetch anything,
but we still have to parse it
and we still have to execute it.
And somewhere in those 11 scripts,
we fire off seven more
synchronous AJAX requests.
So before we've gotten to
the end of the document,
we've caused the browser to
come to a halt another 18 times.
I'm actually surprised it
only takes 12 seconds to load.
And in fact, the truth is,
I frequently see it at
home take 30 to 40 seconds.
So I'm a little unhappy about that.
Well, what can we do about it?
Turns out there's three things that
we're going to do about these problems.
The first one,
is going to minimize
the number of assets.
We're going to take the
JavaScript and the CSS and
compact it down into single files.
Next, we're going to shrink
the total asset size.
So it's great that we have
fewer assets going out,
so we're paying less of a
latency and overhead tax,
but we're going to shrink that
down so they download even faster.
Then we're going to look at
a couple of ways that we can
reduce the script impact.
So ways that we can either fool
you into not noticing that it takes
time for the scripts to execute,
or do the work in the scripts at a later
point so that the page renders faster.
It turns out that minimizing the number
of text assets is actually pretty easy.
You know, we've all been there.
We start off and we've
got a couple of CSS files,
maybe a couple of JavaScript files.
You hire a couple of guys to
help out and work on the team.
Suddenly you've got 10 CSS files
because they're spread out over
different parts of the site,
maybe compartmentalized for
different portions of the pages.
Your JavaScript gets more interactive.
So suddenly 10 years goes by and you've
got 13 CSS files and 24 JavaScript files.
And you're thinking to yourself, oh,
my God, this is just killing me.
We're not saying to you that you
should take all of those files,
put them back together in one file,
and now you're going to work on like
a 384K JavaScript file and everybody's
going to have to tiptoe around in there.
No, really what you can do is
you put together a script,
and we'll see the details
of that a little bit later,
that at either build time or at,
you know, at page request time,
dynamically concatenates
those files together.
You vend out a single file,
and as a result,
you pay less of a latency tax and
you pay less of a total overhead tax.
So the result is you're paying
those taxes only once for
JavaScript and once for CSS.
[Transcript missing]
So let's take a look at how
that would work if we were to
build just the breadcrumb bra
on the online store's homepage.
Well,
we're going to start off with our canvas,
right?
And we're going to pull
in the left-hand edge,
followed by the little home icon thingy,
and then that weird triangle thing.
Slide all the way down to the end,
and we're going to pick
up the divider bar,
the shopping cart,
and then the final right-hand edge.
So we're good.
We've got all the image assets that we're
going to need for the breadcrumb bar,
except one,
which is the actual background.
Well, it turns out,
because we use a horizontally repeating
background for the background of the bar,
it needs to take up an
entire row within our canvas.
There can't be anything to
the left or the right of it,
because that would just get
repeated as it fills out the bar.
Now, image sprites are not a cure-all.
They're really excellent if you're
designing a brand new site or you're
going through a full remodel where you're
taking everything down to the bare metal,
redesigning it, and starting again.
They can be a little bit troublesome
to work into an existing site.
The problem is that, first of all,
they have to be an exact fit.
So if you have a background image,
really all you're using here
is a viewport onto that canvas,
and you're moving the canvas such
that the image that you're interested
in appears within your node.
Well,
if your node is very big and the image
that you're interested in is very small,
well, the browser,
except for Safari coming up,
doesn't have any notion of
clipping of the background,
which I believe is a CSS3 property.
And as a result,
all of the images next to your
sprite will also appear in your node.
So the solution for that is you have
to leave white space in your canvas,
which,
depending on the size of your node,
may kind of defeat the purpose of
putting this image in the sprite.
So that's why this may not be the sort of
solution that you can do automatically,
say, with like a build script.
This is the sort of thing that
almost has to be hand-tuned.
And finally,
we already saw... We already saw that
repeating images pose a special problem.
Fortunately,
this is actually an easy one to solve.
Basically,
what you do is you have a separate
canvas for horizontally repeating
images and another canvas for
vertically repeating images.
And those wind up being,
in the case of horizontal, tall,
thin images, obviously,
because they just repeat horizontally.
And for vertically repeating,
it's a nice, wide but short canvas.
So now we've got fewer
images on the page.
And what we really need to do
next is make those images -- fewer
images -- fewer assets on the page.
What we need to do is now take those
assets and just shrink them down.
Make them take less
time to actually load.
Well, there's a good thing here.
The assets don't need
to be humanly readable.
You and I all work -- and I know
you're better than this than
I am -- we comment our code.
We format it nicely.
Well,
it turns out that this CSS is exactly
the same to the browser as that.
Now, we don't want to work with this,
but I'm perfectly happy serving
this out to the browser.
Similarly,
this JavaScript is exactly the same
to the browser as this JavaScript.
Could be a problem if
you need to debug it,
but that's an easy trick.
You just swap out the file.
So this will take our
actual textual assets,
strip out all the extraneous stuff,
like comments and white space,
and in the case of JavaScript, you know,
some meaningful identifiers,
and really reduce the size of the
assets so they download a lot faster.
Because they download faster,
obviously the browser is
going to be waiting less time,
and your page will render faster.
Now, I promise you we're going to take a
look at two ways that we're going to
reduce the impact of script execution.
Now, in order to do that,
we have to understand what the
browser is doing with each script.
The first step it has to do, obviously,
if it's an external script,
it has to fetch it.
Well, we're good here, right?
Because we've reduced the number
of scripts that we're including
on our pages to possibly one,
possibly two, if you have to send out
a separate script for IE.
So this should be not
so much of a problem.
Well, then the browser has to parse it.
Now,
short of sending a brand-new Mac Pro to
everyone who visits your site,
and I promise I'll come visit
your site if you send me one,
there's really not much you can do
to accelerate parsing of JavaScript.
You pretty much just
have to deal with it.
So, fortunately,
Safari is really fast at this,
so we can kind of ignore this as well.
The last thing that we can
affect is execution time.
And there's two things
we want to look at.
The first is really kind of a trick.
It's going to take advantage
of the fact that it takes a
moment for you to recognize
that the content's even arrived.
So we're recommending that you put your
script content at the end of your pages.
Seems like a really obvious thing.
But by doing that, the browser gets to go
entirely through your document
So,
I think the most important thing is to be
able to use the DOM content loaded event,
and if you are familiar with
the DOM content loaded event,
you're probably also familiar with
the fact that it has some challenges,
especially regarding IE,
which doesn't support it at all,
and older versions of Safari.
Even though there are ways to get
around this in your libraries,
they don't always work 100%. This,
on the other hand,
does work 100%. By the time you get here,
your page is ready.
All of your nodes are available.
So that's the trick.
The other one is a
different sort of thing.
You know, imagine you're out last
night boozing it up,
oops, sorry, having a good time,
and you're
[Transcript missing]
Okay, I guarantee you,
you probably don't need Fibonacci
numbers on your website,
but it really is a good
introductory sample sort of thing.
And it allows us to highlight
this notion of IOU data.
So what we're going to set up here
is a cache of our Fibonacci numbers.
And when we first call
get Fibonacci at index,
we're going to notice, hey,
the cache of underscore first
100 Fibonacci's is null.
So the JavaScript will then call
calculate first 100 Fibonacci's,
which does some math,
and then returns the cache.
We then vend out the Fibonacci that
you're interested in from that cache.
Now, the great thing about this is... is
if you never need a Fibonacci number,
you never pay this penalty
of actually calculating them.
So obviously,
this is a fictitious example,
but if you need to calculate, say,
a CRC or some other
computationally intensive table,
this would be an excellent
thing to apply to it,
because if it turns out
that you don't need it,
you never pay the cost.
So at this point,
I'd like to bring up Ryan Orr,
who's a UI engineer on the store,
and I'd like to ask him to run us through
in detail some of the things we're doing
on the store to take these strategies,
put them in place, and more importantly,
give you some sense that A,
you can do it too, and B,
what sort of performance improvements
that you'll see from this.
Right?
Hi, my name's Ryan Orr,
and I'm a UI engineer
on the online store.
And, you know,
Jeff spent the first part of this
talk kind of going over some of
the problems you all might be
seeing on your various sites.
And, you know,
this talk was really bred out
of the problems that we were
seeing on the online store.
You know, a few months ago
Jeff came to me and said,
"Look, we need to get the page
weight under control.
We need to reduce the asset size,
we need to reduce the time
it takes to load the site.
So I want you to go back with the team
and kind of figure out some solutions to
how we can kind of manage this problem."
And so, you know, the team and I,
we sat around and we said, well,
you know, where do we start?
There's so many areas
that we could look at.
Where do we begin?
And so we decided that we would probably
start looking at the source code.
And immediately we saw a
page that looked like this.
Link element after link
element after link element.
You know, and I'm sure you all have
pages that are like this.
And as Jeff mentioned earlier, you know,
we pay a cost for each one of
these assets that we request,
right?
And so if we can just get
these under control and kind
of vend out a single asset,
we might be well on our
way to furthering this.
And so here we decided well,
we should probably
concatenate this stuff.
How should we do this?
Do we want to event this on the fly?
What do we want to do?
And so ultimately we decided that
we should probably do a prepackager.
You know,
some sort of beginning phase where
we could grab all this stuff up,
push it together, and then do some other
processing on the files.
And so that's something that we did.
You know, this can be written in
any sort of language.
You know,
it could be written as a Bash script.
It could--if you're a Ruby Python dev,
you can use those languages.
I chose Ruby because it's something
that I'm very comfortable with,
but anything really works.
So basically we have a simple
YAML configuration file,
very standard Ruby.
There are YAML parsers
for all various languages.
But we have three headers
in this YAML file.
We have global, IE6, and IE7.
And underneath each one of those headers,
we have a list of CSS files in the
same order that you would have the link
elements on the page that we just saw,
so that you get rule overriding
and inheritance and whatnot.
And so we loop over each of the headers,
and we grab all the CSS files.
We grab the contents from the
CSS file and stick it out in
the root as one single file,
global CSS, IE6, IE7.
And we went and rendered the page,
and immediately we noticed
a big problem on the site.
None of the images showed up.
And so we said, oh, what happened here?
What went wrong?
And to explain this,
let me explain a little
bit of back history.
The online store is 10 years old, right?
And that's 10 years of people
coming in through the store and
having their kind of touch with it,
deciding the directory
structure and whatnot.
And because of that,
there are files all over the place.
And people wrote the background
image URL paths relative to
the location of the CSS file.
So when we looped over all the files,
pulled all the CSS out,
and stuck it in the root,
we never changed any of the paths.
And so it referred to
images that weren't there.
And so we decided that we had to
go through and rewrite these URLs.
And so there was a fair
bit of work to do that,
but we were able to do that,
and that solved our problem.
And so the team and I,
we took a step back, and we said,
how do we prevent ourselves
from being bit by this again?
What do we do?
And well, it turns out we'd already done
the work to grab the image URL.
So we thought,
why don't we just verify that
these images actually exist?
So we do that.
We go out and we rewrite the URL and
we verify that that image is there.
You know,
maybe somebody forgot to check it in.
And if that happens,
it throws us in the air and
we know to go look at it.
Maybe the path was written wrong.
And so we're able to verify
that the asset actually exists.
And so that worked out great for us.
We said, well, what else can we do here?
This is a great phase to kind of
push any of this processing into.
And we said, well,
it makes sense that we want
to validate our CSS here.
You know, look for syntax errors
and things like that.
And there's a widely accepted
validator by the W3C called Jigsaw.
It's at jigsaw.w3c.org.
But it's got two big problems for us.
The first is that it's a web app.
And so it doesn't work with
our command line workflow that
we were kind of going with.
And the second is because it's a web app,
we have to send our code out to it.
And I don't know about you guys,
but there's no way that we're
going to be able to do that.
There's no way that we could possibly
send our code out to a web app,
you know, that's proprietary Apple code.
It would be a matter of, you know,
an hour before the blogs are
trying to interpret what the
various class in the CSS is.
So that really wasn't an option for us.
And so we opted to
write our own validator.
You know, it was a pretty simple process.
It took a couple hours over a
week to kind of get it done.
And that's not really the important
thing that I want to talk about.
What writing a validator allowed
us to do was to chain load
in other development rules.
And, you know,
to kind of explain this and kind of give
you an idea of something that you might
be able to do with a step like this,
we have a lot of people
at the online store that,
you know,
are fixing bugs or fixing issues,
and they may not have a
global view of all the CSS.
And, you know, to their credit,
they're trying to get their work done.
And to do that,
they might write an ultra-generic rule.
They might write something
like ULLI background colon red.
And then that fixes their issue, right?
But when you concatenate all
the CSS and you pull it out
and then that out site-wide,
it may turn all the ULLIs red on
the site and cause more problems.
And so what we did is in the validator,
we wrote, like, dev rules.
And essentially,
it's a starting comment that says,
you know, all rules from here to a
termination comment should begin
with a class rule namespace.
And so we go through,
and when it hits that block,
it verifies that all the rules
below are actually namespaced.
And if it, you know, it fails that test,
we throw an error,
and it lets us know that we
should probably go look at this
before we push out to production.
And hopefully we won't push
out something that will,
you know, cause havoc on the site or,
you know, cause havoc on a small piece of
the site that you rarely go to.
So on the JavaScript side,
we did something very similar.
We checked the dependencies,
and this allowed us to dynamically
generate the list of JavaScript files
that we can catenate out into the root.
[Transcript missing]
And so, you know,
Jeff mentioned earlier that the
code doesn't necessarily need
the white space and comments
to be readable by the browser.
It doesn't need to be human readable
You know, we put that in for us.
I certainly wouldn't want to work on
source files that aren't commented
or don't have proper formatting,
and I know none of my
coworkers would either.
But we can, during this packaging phase,
we can strip all that stuff out.
And so we elected to use the
YUI Compressor by the Yahoo!
UI team.
It's a great utility.
The guys have put a lot of work into it.
It's very robust.
It works with both CSS and JavaScript,
and it works on the command line,
so it works with our workflow.
And so it's a great tool.
It just strips all the comments
and white space out and puts
everything on a single line.
It's the minimal amount of code that
the browser needs to render a page.
Another thing that you can
do is to rewrite your rules,
right?
There's this notion of,
or some CSS properties have a top, right,
bottom, left variant to it, right?
Things like margin and padding
and border have these top,
right, bottom, left components.
But you can also write a
shorthand version of that rule.
It looks something like this,
where you have margin and then
you pass in the value starting
at the top and going clockwise,
right?
And the difference between the
two rules is some number of bytes.
And obviously the shorthand
version is smaller.
Ultimately,
we decided not to go this route because
we weren't able to accurately QA our code
before it was pushed out to production.
And so we didn't feel comfortable pushing
out code that we weren't able to QA.
But if you can fit this into your
workflow and you're able to QA it
and you feel comfortable and you
need to eek a few more bytes out,
this is definitely something to look at.
On the JavaScript side,
we did something very similar.
Again, like I said,
we used the YUI Compressor to remove
the whitespace in the comments.
And so we kind of compressed
the JavaScript up real nice.
But we do something a little bit
different with the JavaScript.
We also shorten the local variables.
Now, you may have heard of this
being called obfuscation,
right?
So there's a notion that, you know,
variables can be somewhat long at times,
right?
You could have, "This is the name of
a div." That would be,
you know, the variable.
That could very easily be the letter A.
And, you know,
A is obviously a lot shorter
than this is the name of a div.
And, you know,
so we found that by using obfuscation,
which is traditionally used to make
your code a lot harder to read,
right,
we found that by repurposing the tool,
we were able to get
compression techniques out or
compression results out of it.
And so we employed it in this case.
So that kind of made up our phase two.
And we went back to the baseline,
and we tested our phase two
against what we'd already done.
And we saw that the JavaScript was
basically cut in half.
We went from 314K of
JavaScript down to 157K.
And CSS went from 153K down to 128K.
And this is great.
It's a step in the right direction,
but it's still not quite enough.
We thought the sweet spot is really 100K
for the CSS and JavaScript combined.
That's what we were targeting.
We thought that it would really,
it wouldn't cost the user a lot of
time if they only had to download 100K.
So that's what we shot for.
And we had to look at other avenues.
What did we look at next?
We've already spent a bunch of time
on getting rid of all the requests,
and we'd already compressed the
code down as much as we could.
Where else can we eke
a bit of performance?
And so we said we should probably
start looking at the vending mechanism.
We should probably
start looking at Apache.
And modern browsers,
they support gzip compression, right?
Very efficient algorithm
to kind of compress,
take compressed data,
decompress it on the client side so
you can transfer this compressed data.
And so we started taking a
look at Apache and how we
could use Apache to do this.
And it turns out Apache ships
with two modules,
ModDeflate and ModGZip.
And the way I like to
distinguish the two,
ModDeflate is really for assets
that you want to compress
on the fly and then bend,
and ModGZip are for assets you want to
pre-compress and stick up on the server.
Now, at the online store,
we have an edge caching solution,
as Jeff mentioned.
We use Akamai.
An open source,
a very similar open source caching
solution would be like Squid.
So it's, you know,
something to take a look at.
But because we have that
caching solution in front of us,
it periodically hits our web servers,
and then we use ModDeflate
to compress the assets,
bend it up to Akamai,
and then Akamai handles the job
of bending that to the millions of
users that hit the online store.
So we don't really need to
worry about server utilization,
and that's why we use ModDeflate.
If you didn't have a caching solution
in front of your web servers,
you might want to take a look
at something like ModGZip.
And this would allow you to
pre-compress all these assets,
you know,
probably during your packaging phase,
and then stick them up on the
server as part of your deployment.
And then you can use ModRewrite
to kind of redirect all the
requests for static assets over
to these GZip compressed versions,
and then bend those out.
So this was our phase three.
So we put this into place,
and we pushed this out to the QA server,
and we tested it.
And we saw that the sizes
went through the floor.
This had a huge impact for us.
And so we went from 314k of
JavaScript all the way down to 38k,
and on the CSS, we went from 153k at the
beginning down to 22k.
If you remember in Phase 1,
our request time was 2500 milliseconds.
We had gotten that down
to 136 milliseconds.
This is fantastic.
We couldn't have been happier.
We overshot our goal.
Our goal was 100K.
We were able to get the
static assets down to 60K.
So what this allowed us to do now
is we have room to kind of grow
and to add interactivity and to add
features and not have to worry about
going over our target file size.
To kind of underline the
amount of reduction that we
saw from beginning to end,
I kind of want to take a look
and give you some numbers here.
So from the start,
from our start file size
of the CSS to the end,
we saw an 86% reduction with these
techniques that I just outlined.
With the JavaScript,
we saw an 88% reduction.
And the request time latency,
we saw a 97% reduction.
We couldn't have been happier about this.
And really what I want you guys to
take away from this is that these
are all really easy techniques,
right?
None of this is rocket science.
None of this is too hard to comprehend.
And it's things that can
be piecemealed together.
You don't have to follow
the way we did it.
You can take small pieces and put it
into your workflow as you see fit.
And hopefully, you'll see that.
And you'll notice these large
gains like we were seeing.
And with that,
I'd like to hand it back to Jeff Watkins.
Of course, the real challenge now is
going to be how we top this,
because you know you
never get to stand still,
right?
Now, I see a lot of you
have your laptops open,
and if you're looking at
the source of the store,
I have to confess you won't see this yet.
But just keep looking.
It takes us a little while to roll these
things out of QA and into production.
So how many of you are
responsible for adding animation
and interactivity to your sites?
Anyone?
So we're going to talk
about that a little bit.
Once upon a time, you know,
animation was sort of the province
of marquee tags and blink tags.
Don't you miss those?
Oddly enough, we just had someone use a
marquee tag just recently,
purely as an attention-getting thing.
Hey, there's content missing here,
but boy, did it get my attention.
So we all want to be adding more
and more animation to our sites.
And the trick is now it's really
not just a gimmicky thing.
Now we're doing it as much to add
context and feedback to our visitors.
It's really important for us to
provide a sense of how do I get
back to that previous state?
Well, we recently rolled out a brand
new feature on the store,
which maybe some of you
have encountered already,
which was an enhancement to our photo
galleries on the product details pages.
What we wanted to give our
visitors was this rich,
immersive experience of
being able to zoom in,
pan around,
explore their products so that, you know,
maybe they would be able to
make the buying decision.
And we wanted to give our visitors
a sense of how to get back to
their original state of mind.
And we wanted to give our visitors
a sense of how to get back to
their original state of mind.
Because the more we sell,
the better off we all are, right?
So we built this new feature.
And as you can see here,
kind of the standard
product details page,
the visitors hovering his cursor
over one of the thumbnails for the
Nike iPod Sport integration kit.
But when he goes ahead and
clicks on that thumbnail,
the page smoothly transforms
into a photo gallery.
We didn't want to have
light boxes popping up.
We didn't want to have pop-up windows.
Because we didn't want to get
in the way of the experience.
And we always wanted to have the
option of you just exploring the page,
scrolling down, reading the details,
seeing how this product -- basically,
we wanted to be all about the product
rather than our fancy animation.
So let's take a look at that again.
And I want to point out some things
that you should be looking at.
Specifically,
the product text just goes away, right?
Because we're going to be
looking at the product text.
So let's take a look at that again.
And I want to point out some things
that you should be looking at.
Specifically,
the product text just goes away, right?
Because we're going to be looking at.
And I want to point out some things
that you should be looking at.
Specifically,
the product text just goes away, right?
Because we're going to be looking at.
And I want to point out some things
that you should be looking at.
Next, it's always important
for the visitors to know,
is this a good product or is
this maybe not so good a product?
So we take the customer
rating information,
we move that over to the
side so it's always visible.
So you never get lost and figure, hey,
this is not really a great product,
but I'll buy it anyway.
And finally, to provide that context,
to provide feedback to,
here's how you get back to the
descriptive portion of the site,
we bring in a close box.
So the actual button for you to click to
close the gallery just sort of fades in.
So if you watch carefully,
you'll see all of those
things happen really smoothly.
And that's not just because this
is a quick time animation of it.
But what we're striving for
here is 50 frames a second.
Now, to put that in perspective,
traditional film runs at about
24 to 25 frames a second.
Television runs at about
30 frames per second.
And new high-definition content is
targeting about 60 frames a second.
And the reason for that is it
turns out as you add more pixels,
your eye gets better and better
at detecting motion artifacts.
So the more frames that
you have per second,
the less noticeable those artifacts are.
Well, we want to take advantage of that.
So we needed to build a really
robust way of doing this animation.
But at the same time,
we had to have it be really performant
so that we didn't lag down any
other animations that might be
occurring on the site at the same time.
And we came up with two optimization
techniques that we're going
to talk to you about today.
There are tons of optimization
techniques for JavaScript.
You can probably fill an entire session
just with JavaScript optimization tricks.
But we're going to talk about two.
The first being, sometimes it's necessary
to leave the library.
Now,
JavaScript libraries are essential tools.
I don't know really anybody who
develops a sophisticated website
without a library of any sort.
And I'm not,
I'm certainly not up here telling
you that libraries are terrible.
No, they're actually really critical.
They allow us to build much
better sites in far less time.
But they're developed for everyone,
right?
They're not specifically
developed for you.
And as a result,
there may be more in that
library than you actually need,
and that might actually
be slowing down your code.
We'll take a look at a really
good example of that in a moment.
And sometimes it helps to be really,
really laser focused and specific.
And we'll see that that provides
us with dramatic speed improvement.
But
Let's get to the code.
So this is actually the
core of that animation.
This is the setup function.
What we do,
and this is a really common technique,
is we set up our CSS as an inline, open,
and zoomed mode.
So we have separate class
names for each one of those.
And that way,
as the CSS developer is working,
it just sets the class,
everything pops into place,
everything's good,
we can make sure everything's
located correctly.
But what we do is before we
apply the class in the animation,
we find out all the
properties of those nodes,
then we apply the class,
find out their new properties,
and then smoothly animate between them.
Okay?
Well, when we did this the first
time... we encountered 50 nodes.
Okay, not too bad.
A little bit more nodes than we'd like.
You know,
we can't always use multiple background
images like we do with Safari.
But we execute this twice,
and that made our
runtime 42 milliseconds.
So to put this in perspective,
if we're shooting for 50 frames a second,
that means each frame
is only 20 milliseconds.
So we've dropped two frames on the floor.
Now, realistically speaking,
if we are getting 50 frames a second,
you won't notice.
But not everybody out there is
running Safari on the latest Mac Pro.
There are people out there
running it on MacBooks.
There are people running Safari on Cubes.
And there's even that poor guy
out there running it on IE.
So it's really,
really critical that we do
everything we can to speed this up,
because that IE guy,
he's going to be seeing
200 milliseconds or more.
So he's going to drop
way more than two frames.
He'll probably just
notice it pop into place.
So we want to do whatever
we can to make that better.
But it turns out,
there's not a lot of code here.
Essentially, it's a tight loop with a
call to element get style.
So let's take a look at element
get style and see what we can see.
Now, I don't mean to be picking
on the prototype library,
because this is the source code
for their get style function.
I chose prototype because it is one of
the most popular libraries out there,
and I figured a lot of you
would be very familiar with it.
It turns out, though,
that as I mentioned earlier,
this is written for everyone,
including people who pass in IDs.
We're not going to ever pass in an ID.
We're always going to
pass in an actual node.
People who pass in CSS properties rather
than the JavaScript equivalent of them,
we're only ever going to pass
in the JavaScript equivalent.
So we can throw away a lot of this code.
It's good code, but for our uses,
we don't need it.
So we're only going to consider just
the code that we're interested in.
So we see that we have one
access to an inline style,
and we do that for performance reasons.
If the inline style is there, excellent.
We return it right quick.
If the value is null,
then we call getComputedStyle to find
out what the node's actual styles are,
and then we access that computed
style and return it for a grand
total of three operations.
Really good.
I mean, if the prototype guys could
optimize this even more,
I guarantee you they already would have.
But keep in mind, this is generic code.
It's meant for everyone to use.
So if we put this in place
in our getStyles function,
what we see is not so good performance.
In addition to the call
to element getStyle,
which carries along with it
three additional operations,
we're doing that for
every single property.
Well, we animate 30 to 40 properties.
So you can easily see that we're doing a
tremendous number of operations per node,
per loop through those nodes.
So it's no wonder to me that it's taking
a little bit longer than it should.
So this brings us to our first point.
Sometimes it's necessary
to leave the library.
So what we're going to do is we're
going to rewrite this entirely from
scratch to do the exact same thing,
but do it a lot faster.
So we're going to rewrite this entirely
from scratch to do the exact same thing,
but do it a lot faster.
[Transcript missing]
We arrived at the same
result nonetheless.
And this really, like I'm telling you,
this is not hard stuff.
But the end result is a seven
times speed improvement.
Now, I'll do a fair amount of work to
improve anything by seven times.
And when it's a critical
feature of the site,
like the product gallery is,
that's pretty awesome.
So to recap,
We talked about some of the
problems that we're all seeing.
I'm sure nobody's site loads
as quickly as you want it to.
I'm a web developer.
Mine could never possibly
load as fast as I wanted to.
And we use more bandwidth than we'd like.
You know,
bandwidth is only going to get cheaper.
That's true.
But you still got to pay the bill.
So the less you use, obviously,
the lower that bill's going to be.
We looked at the strategies
that you can all use.
They're really simple.
They're the sorts of things that
all you got to do is find time
in your schedules to apply them.
And then we looked at how we're
applying them on the online store.
And finally, hey,
we looked at ways to add even
more interactivity to our websites
and hopefully provide a richer,
more immersive experience
to our visitors.
So if you'd like some more information,
please feel free to contact
Vicki Murley or Mark Merlone.
They're the evangelists for
Safari and Internet technologies,
respectively.
And do take a chance to look
at the JavaScript Lint tool.
It's really tremendous.
I can't tell you the number
of times it's caused,
caught dumb bugs of mine,
which would have caused
tremendous problems.
But probably the best thing it
ever will do for you is tell you
that you never declared a variable,
and you're promoting it
then to global scope.
So also the YUI Compressor,
say that 10 times fast.
And this is a great tool.
They've done an enormous
amount of work on it,
as Ryan mentioned.
And it'll really take your code,
smoosh it down,
and reduce it quite a bit.
If you didn't catch it yesterday,
I'd really encourage you to go
onto iTunes in a week or so,
or maybe more,
and download the debugging session.
Tim and Adam did an awesome job
of walking you through the new
debugging features in Safari.